Add README for `@near-lake/primitives` (#30)
near/near-lake-framework-js: packages/near-lake-primitives/README.md

## Types

### `Block`

#### `Block` Structure Definition

The `Block` type is used to represent a block in the NEAR Lake Framework. It is comprised by the following structure:

```ts
export class Block {
    constructor(
        readonly streamerMessage: StreamerMessage,
        private executedReceipts: Receipt[],
        readonly postponedReceipts: Receipt[],
        readonly transactions: Transaction[],
        private _actions: Map<string, Action>,
        private _events: Map<string, Event[]>,
        private _stateChanges: StateChange[]) { 

        }
    ... // helper methods and getters ommitted for brevity
}
```

##### `streamerMessage`

Low-level structure for backward compatibility. As implemented in previous versions of [`near-lake-framework`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/near-lake-framework). 

##### `postponedReceipts`

Receipts included on the chain but not executed yet marked as “postponed”: they are represented by the same structure `Receipt` (see the corresponding section in this doc for more details).

##### `transactions`

List of included `Transactions`, converted into `Receipts`.

> **_NOTE_:** Heads up! You might want to know about `Transactions` to know where the action chain has begun. In other cases you might want to know where the main asset is, like Ethereum where a transaction is a main asset. On NEAR, `Receipts` are more important.

Reviewer: I am a bit confused about what this means: `In other cases you might want to know where the main asset is, like Ethereum where a transaction is a main asset.` Perhaps you can say, 
```suggestion
**_NOTE_:** Heads up! You might want to know about `Transactions` to know where the action chain has begun. Unlike Ethereum, where a Transaction contains everything you may want to know about a particular interaction on  the Ethereum blockchain, Near Protocol because of its asynchronous nature converts a `Transaction` into a `receipt` before executing it. Thus, On NEAR, `Receipts` are more important for figuring out what happened on-chain as a result of a Transaction signed by a user. 
```

Including a link to documentation for Near Transactions may be helpful too. 
```suggestion
**_NOTE_:** Heads up! You might want to know about `Transactions` to know where the action chain has begun. In other cases you might want to know where the main asset is, like Ethereum where a transaction is a main asset. On NEAR, `Receipts` are more important. Read more about [Transactions on Near](https://nomicon.io/RuntimeSpec/Transactions) here. 
```

Defined the type of the `Receipt`: `Action` or `Data` representing the `ActionReceipt` and `DataReceipt`.

##### `receiptId`

The ID of the `Receipt` of the `CryptoHash` type.

##### `receiverId`

The receiver account id of the `Receipt`.

##### `predecessorId`

The predecessor account id of the `Receipt`.

##### `status`

Represents the status of `ExecutionOutcome` of the `Receipt`.

See the `ExecutionStatus` enum section for the details.

##### `executionOutcomeId`

The id of the `ExecutionOutcome` for the `Receipt`. Returns `null` if the `Receipt` isn’t executed yet and has a postponed status.

##### `logs`

The original logs of the corresponding `ExecutionOutcome` of the `Receipt`.

Note: not all of the logs might be parsed as JSON Events (`Events`).

#### `Receipt` Helper Methods

```ts
export class Receipt {
    ... // constructor ommitted for brevity
    get events(): Event[] {}

    static fromOutcomeWithReceipt(outcomeWithReceipt: OutcomeWithReceipt): Receipt {}
}
```

##### `Receipt.events()`

Returns an Array of `Events` for the `Receipt`, if any. This might be empty if the `logs` field is empty or doesn’t contain JSON Events compatible log records.

### `Event`

> This structure is an ephemeral entity to provide access to the Events Standard structure and keep a data about the related `Receipt` for convenience.

Reviewer: Would be helpful to include a link to the Events standard.

```suggestion
This structure is an ephemeral entity to provide access to the [Events Standard](https://github.com/near/NEPs/blob/master/neps/nep-0297.md) structure and keep data about the related `Receipt` for convenience.
```

## Types

### `Block`

#### `Block` Structure Definition

The `Block` type is used to represent a block in the NEAR Lake Framework. It is comprised by the following structure:

```ts
export class Block {
    constructor(
        readonly streamerMessage: StreamerMessage,
        private executedReceipts: Receipt[],
        readonly postponedReceipts: Receipt[],
        readonly transactions: Transaction[],
        private _actions: Map<string, Action>,
        private _events: Map<string, Event[]>,
        private _stateChanges: StateChange[]) { 

        }
    ... // helper methods and getters ommitted for brevity
}
```

##### `streamerMessage`

Low-level structure for backward compatibility. As implemented in previous versions of [`near-lake-framework`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/near-lake-framework). 

##### `postponedReceipts`

Receipts included on the chain but not executed yet marked as “postponed”: they are represented by the same structure `Receipt` (see the corresponding section in this doc for more details).

##### `transactions`

List of included `Transactions`, converted into `Receipts`.

> **_NOTE_:** Heads up! You might want to know about `Transactions` to know where the action chain has begun. Unlike Ethereum, where a Transaction contains everything you may want to know about a particular interaction on  the Ethereum blockchain, Near Protocol because of its asynchronous nature converts a `Transaction` into a `receipt` before executing it. Thus, On NEAR, `Receipts` are more important for figuring out what happened on-chain as a result of a Transaction signed by a user. Read more about [Transactions on Near](https://nomicon.io/RuntimeSpec/Transactions) here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**_NOTE_:** Heads up! You might want to know about `Transactions` to know where the action chain has begun. Unlike Ethereum, where a Transaction contains everything you may want to know about a particular interaction on  the Ethereum blockchain, Near Protocol because of its asynchronous nature converts a `Transaction` into a `Receipt` before executing it. Thus, On NEAR, `Receipts` are more important for figuring out what happened on-chain as a result of a Transaction signed by a user. Read more about [Transactions on Near](https://nomicon.io/RuntimeSpec/Transactions) here.
```

#### `Block` Helper Methods

```ts
export class Block {
    ... // constructor ommitted for brevity
    get blockHash(): string {}
    get prevBlockHash(): string {}
    get blockHeight(): number {}

    header(): BlockHeader {}
    receipts(): Receipt[] {}
    actions(): Action[] {}
    events(): Event[] {}
    stateChanges(): StateChange[] {}

    actionByReceiptId(receipt_id: string): Action | undefined {}
    eventsByReceiptId(receipt_id: string): Event[] {}
    eventsByAccountId(account_id: string): Event[] {}

    private buildActionsHashmap() {}
    private buildEventsHashmap(): Map<string, Event[]> {}

    static fromStreamerMessage(streamerMessage: StreamerMessage): Block {}
}
```

##### `blockHash`

Returns the block hash. A shortcut to get the data from the block header.

##### `prevBlockHash`

Returns the previous block hash. A shortcut to get the data from the block header.

##### `blockHeight`

Returns the block height. A shortcut to get the data from the block header.

> ##### `header()`

Reviewer 2: The return type is missing here (`func(): T`, e.g. `receipts(): Receipt[]`)

Returns a `BlockHeader` structure of the block

See `BlockHeader` structure sections for details.

> ##### `receipts()`

Reviewer 2: The return type is missing here (`func(): T`, e.g. `receipts(): Receipt[]`)

Returns a slice of `Receipts` executed in the block.

Basically is a getter for the `executedReceipts` field.

> ##### `actions()`

Reviewer 2: The return type is missing here (`func(): T`, e.g. `receipts(): Receipt[]`)

    readonly executionOutcomeId?: string | undefined, 
    readonly logs: string[] = []) {
    }
  ... // helper methods ommitted for brevity
}
```

#### `Receipt` Fields

##### `receiptKind`

Defined the type of the `Receipt`: `Action` or `Data` representing the `ActionReceipt` and `DataReceipt`.

##### `receiptId`

The ID of the `Receipt` of the `CryptoHash` type.

##### `receiverId`

The receiver account id of the `Receipt`.

##### `predecessorId`

The predecessor account id of the `Receipt`.

##### `status`

Represents the status of `ExecutionOutcome` of the `Receipt`.

See the `ExecutionStatus` enum section for the details.

##### `executionOutcomeId`

The id of the `ExecutionOutcome` for the `Receipt`. Returns `null` if the `Receipt` isn’t executed yet and has a postponed status.

##### `logs`

The original logs of the corresponding `ExecutionOutcome` of the `Receipt`.

Note: not all of the logs might be parsed as JSON Events (`Events`).

#### `Receipt` Helper Methods

```ts
export class Receipt {
    ... // constructor ommitted for brevity
    get events(): Event[] {}

    static fromOutcomeWithReceipt(outcomeWithReceipt: OutcomeWithReceipt): Receipt {}
}
```

> ##### `Receipt.events()`

Reviewer 2: Is it possible to provide the expected return type as you did for the `Block` methods?

Author: I'm confused. I see this explained below:

`Returns an Array of `Events` for the `Receipt`, if any. This might be empty if the `logs` field is empty or doesn’t contain JSON Events compatible log records.`

Reviewer 2: Sorry I mean adding it to the method title 

Like this `.events(): Events[]`

##### `Transaction.signature`

Returns the `Signature` the `Transaction` was signed with.

##### `Transaction.receiverId`

Returns the receiver account id of the `Transaction`.

##### `Transaction.status`

Returns the status of the `Transaction` as `ExecutionStatus`.

##### `Transaction.executionOutcomeId`

Returns the id of the `ExecutionOutcome` for the `Transaction`.

##### `Transaction.operations`

Returns an Array of `Operation` for the `Transaction`.

### `StateChange`

This structure is almost an identical copy of the `StateChangeWithCauseView` from `near-primitives` with a propagated additional field `affectedAccountId`.

#### `StateChange` Structure Definition

```ts
export class StateChange {
    constructor(
      readonly cause: StateChangeCause, 
      readonly value: StateChangeValue
    ) {}
    
    get affectedAccountId(): string {}

    static fromStateChangeView(stateChangeView: StateChangeWithCauseView) {}
}
```

##### `StateChange.cause`

Returns the `cause` of the `StateChange`.

##### `StateChange.value`

Returns the `value` of the `StateChange`.

##### `StateChange.affectedAccountId(): string`

Returns the account id of the `StateChange`.

> ##### `StateChange.fromStateChangeView()`

Reviewer 2: The return type is missing here (`func(): T`, e.g. `receipts(): Receipt[]`)

# NEAR Lake Primitive Types

This crate contains the primitive types used by the [NEAR Lake Framework package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@near-lake/framework). These types are used to define the data structures used by the framework as well as provide some popular helper functions.

## Types

### `Block`

#### `Block` Structure Definition

The `Block` type is used to represent a block in the NEAR Lake Framework. It is comprised by the following structure:

```ts
export class Block {
    constructor(
        readonly streamerMessage: StreamerMessage,
        private executedReceipts: Receipt[],
        readonly postponedReceipts: Receipt[],
        readonly transactions: Transaction[],
        private _actions: Map<string, Action>,
        private _events: Map<string, Event[]>,
        private _stateChanges: StateChange[]) { 

        }
    ... // helper methods and getters ommitted for brevity
}
```

##### `streamerMessage`

Low-level structure for backward compatibility. As implemented in previous versions of [`near-lake-framework`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/near-lake-framework). 

> ##### `executedReceipts`

Reviewer 2: I am not sure we want to describe the private fields at all. 

The reasoning behind privatizing those fields in the first place is to forbid the developers to use them. This allows us to change the internal structure of the class while keeping the APIs (methods) the same instead of introducing the breaking changes.

So I would suggest a rule of thumb: if the field is private do not describe it in the doc.

Objections? Other thoughts?

Author: Makes sense to me
